# *In the beginning, they were but villages of people simply trying to live their lives.* 
*Communities stretched across the countless fields that shined like gold across the horizon. Where sapphire rivers blessed the earth with bounty. Yet the people of Arcadia, as it became known later desired more. Not merely for themselves but their children and their children's children. So it was, that from this fevor of community that the leaders of each household came together and united as one. A singular piece of land between their respective villages, where the rivers met and flowed between the lands.*

*It.. was a simple time, a time full of optimism, hope and exploration that the first foundation of Centrica was laid and that foundation stone gave rise to a beautiful thing. The founders of the capital by their unity formed into a royal household, where their descendants each held sway and responsibility over aspects of the budding capital and land.*

*Bridges, were constructed to bridge the gap between the villages, docks were constructed to allow the men and women of Arcadia to explore. A large observatory worked out of stone and glass to enable the more curious minded to stare at the heavens. A cathedral built, for community and a slow but firm foundation of faith and prayer soon became the norm. Where all would gather, in merriment and cooperation to pave the way to the future. In this, all were equal. Regardless of their status, it served as a binding between them, from simple farmer to king and queen.*

*All the while, it grew, prosperous through trade, through toil, through philosophy, even magic became more abundant by the curious minded individuals. Yet spread amongst each village was a church and a banner, a promise in both halves; to Arcadia, to the past and the people who came before them and to the majesty that they now upheld. But because of these peaceful times, their military wasn't significant, for more often than not there was little need. Certainly, people went out, fought and bested beasts for meat and game, but nothing untoward. Not... untill the first war.*

*A beautiful wall was constructed around the capital, emblazoned with the city's banner, a shining beacon of human creativity and unity. Of white marble stone and wrought iron gates polished to a mirror sheen. Of well traveled roads stretching across the bridges, paved with large slabs. Of an impressive shipyard for the finest of vessels to chart a course around the world.*

*To the south, a verdant meadow and field of wheat and grain and a small hamlet nestled upon a hill. With a sparse forest between the field and meadow besides, of rolling hills. With lush orchards cradled along the path. To the east across the river, a vast forest surrounding a village with it's chapel shining bright. The village proper formed of old growth timber with rich grain and dark from age and varnish. Rustic lanterns light the way when the sun dips below the horizon casting a soft and warm glow. The forest was peaceful, warm and comfortable.*

*Hunters prevailed there, skilled marksmen, woodsman and fishermen live comfortably side by side in the warm glow. This was their sanctuary, their place in the world. A village known as Tranquillity.  To the west, across the river from Centrica nestling in the shadow of a mountain was the other village where the humans started. With lush rolling fields full of livestock and crops. The village was fashioned more of carved stone from the mountain's bounty and a prominent mine became profitable when iron and other minerals was discovered.*

*Such, became the village of Solace. In all three human settlements, their chapels adorned with symbols distinct to their location, a personal touch to the place of communion and community. This was their start, their haven in the world that knew peace.* *From this age of peace, the stability of the land was unprecedent. With the Aurelian royal family led by King Alaric and Queen Seraphine who stood steadfast as custodians over their people and with the aid of the Penrose family, led by Lady Maelin who watched over Solace, who nested in the mountains shade.  The Shadowglen family, who oversaw the content forest to the west, which later became known as Shadowglen forest in their honour with Lord Jackson Shadowglen who protected Tranquillien and saw to it's needs.*

*With several guilds and groups, each of special interests to the nation, such as Astronomy which saw the construction of the observatory and grand library, which mages of all calibres and citizens saw fit to access. With the Luarentis family taking stewardship of this thanks to Lady Elise Luarentis's efforts. With construction being headed by Sir Mathias Redwall, whilst not of the original caste of nobility, who became one by deed and prominence. Thus began the Redwall line of fortificaction and the city's own walls.*

*Lastly, but by no means least, the shipwrights and explorers led by Dame Rennala Skye, who in similar vain, earnt her nobility for her family by her ambition and ideals to sail the seas, to bridge the gaps between the other lands. Which in turn, is how Sir Archibald Meadows earned his, for the facilitation of proper trade routes and caravans and roads being properly constructed and paved, and providing maps from his own time spent traveling. It is thanks to him and his family that the kingdom bore the maps they do, of the lands they lived on.*
