# In the dense forests that fill the continent of The Eternal Land.

 *Layers of foilage sway of content harmony with the wind and rain. With gentle moss, gripping the stone to the roots burying deep into the leaf litter. To beautiful arrays of flowers budding between the gaps of the canopy, where the sun's radiance flows down to the forest floor. Purple vines, that coil around the trunks of mighty trees and ensnare the branches, whilst herbs and lush grasses take plentiful advantage of the open space between the trees. In verdant groves and rolling hills on ever on the riverbanks the feed the undergrowth. Thus, does nature create it's own balance.*

*The elves were an isolated group, even amongst themselves with the exception of families they saw little pressing reason, in the beggining to form villages and communities. For nature granted them everything they needed, yet as the times passed and their interactions with the forest creatures. Lindwurms, large serpentine creatures that bore a draconic head and lacked wings, capable of breathing an acidic breath that could destroy sections of the forest to make it's nest. The mighty Archosaur, a quadrupedal beast draped in armoured scales with a menacing bite. An elven woman studied these creatures, for the forest held so many.*

*For... within the forest, all kinds of creatures could be found, from the mighty Mana tree, producing large pear shaped fruits that could restore ones mana, to some creatures even possessing the means to call upon the arcane and natures bounty by themselves. It... fascinated her and many others like her. So it was, she treked deeper into the forest, where eventually she happened upon a river that split in twain around a central landmass. It... looked so serene, with the mountains providing shade against the brilliant canopy of emerald and dark blue leaves that glistened beautifully in the daylight.*

*Such a place, would make for a beautiful space to call home. A real home, not simply drifting between the woods, running into and from the crag bears. But, a place she and others of her ilk could study, to achieve any ambition they so desired. But first, she required assistance. For in the seasons that passed, whilst others had gained the skill to walk even more softly and hunt in the forests, there was one group amongst them, that had begun in their ways, under a wizened treant to learn how to call upon nature.*

## *The first druids.*

*So, gathering those around her, who similarly saught after the same things they approached the first druids, led by Astarian Moonguard. The elven woman, who called herself Scarlet Dawnblade, the first of her name communed with the grove of druids and spoke of an island in the middle of their land and her desire to sculpt a place for their people to live. Yet she knew, she could not do this alone, thus did she seek out her fellows aid. She spoke of her plans, to create a sanctum for arcane knowledge, to better understand their world and the forces at play, to better be able to protect their home and make one for themselves.*

*At first, the druids were distrustful of such things, but it was the mana tree that gave them solace. For even in nature, magic was common. For if the ways of the arcane and nature could coexist, then why should they not also be capable? So it was, that they agreed. Yet, they would not do this without their master. The mighty treant, Silverbark who's exterior reflected the sun's majesty and who's bark stood like iron cast a withering stare at the elves.*

*They may be of the forest, yes but so were many others. So it was, the treant emposed a task. The ancient tree told the mage Dawnblade and her fellows, including Farondis Dawnstar, who whilst he himself wasn't a mage, believed in the dream that Dawnblade had spoke to him. The task, was as followed: To venture to that land and take it's measure properly, to count the creatures, count the fauna, identify each thing that they would remove, in order to make their home. In order to gain his blessing, they must understand, they must appreciate what the land would offer them.*

*So it was, the elves left and four days later, returned. Scarlet had done more than simply count and identify, she showed the treant them. Using arcane magic allbeit crudely compared to later, the creatures, the plants through illusions. Infact, she proposed a way for these creatures to not be truly displaced. A means for them to coexist. Thus, the elves earned Silverbark's permission. For they understood his lesson inspite of not being druids. That in nature, balance is everything, if change is to be introduced into the ecosystem, then one must take steps to reduce it's impact. They had proven to be wise, to have great care and consideration. Thus, Silverbark went with them.*  

*With his aid, they moved the larger creatures, such as a clutch of faerie dragons away and to the nearby forested area, each creature and plant, relocated without doing significant harm before they begun. Silverbark and the druids, wove together a wall of ironbark trees, formed of a splinter of Silverbark's bough. A mighty wall to shroud the elves from any potential threats and then, came the rest.*

*The earth, flattened and adjusted, with a mighty grove formed in honour of Silverbark and a place for the druids to call their own. The Grove of Balance, for a perminent lesson that they would never soon forget, with the mighty treant Silverbark who rooted himself in the center, to act as a font of wisdom for all who would come after.*

*Several areas, had been sculpted with homes rising out of the hewen roots and bark formed by the druids and the earth hollowed in a singular point, for a subterreanean system to be fashioned and a topside sanctum for the mages to study in peace and expand as nessecary without threatening the above ground.  Thus, it became known as the Arcane Sanctum.  It was by Farondis's own inclusion that an area for guardians should be wrought, that way defenders could be raised when needed to better protect themselves if nothing else.*

*Then, in the very heart of the city, became a plaza, at first. A central space for the leader of each of the elves to come together and speak upon the issues and work out how best to deal with them. So it became known that, that the council of the city would be known as 'The council of the sun'. Thus, did the fledgling city known as Letharion come to be, and mighty bridges built to the north and west proper to allow for easy passage. It was only later, that they discovered two other elven towns flourishing and growing in the woods as the lands surrounding the capital began to flourish. All was good and eventually, the mages and druids alike, grew into harmony and their strength magnified.*

*Yet, it wasn't untill a half century later, when the city became wrought with beautiful white stone and proper walkways and a mage sanctum that'd been properly fleshed out with tomes on knowledge and subjects alike. It was from this Era, that the first Archdruid and Archmage grew into prominence. Archdruid Astarian Moonguard and Archmage Scarlet Dawnblade, through their balance and wisdom did peace thrive in their lands. Like the harmony of the sun and moon, reflecting eachothers purpose and light.*

*But... within those times, things began to stir, one of Scarlet's own mages uncovered something horrific that shook them to their core. Other realms, other worlds, glimpsed from scrying and divination, that then ushered into the world a singular tome, almost forbidden magic in of itself. The first book on demons. The infernal text of Ruin*

*It was from this singular discovery that prompted a meeting convened by the Arch mage and Archdruid and Farondis Dawnstar about the danger this posed. They needed to be ready, they had to unit their fellow elves together. Thus, they sent out envoys across the forest, to each elven group alike. To the village in the east; Dawnsong Village, to the village in the north west; Eventide Retreat. That the time had come to band together, for their future was threatened, that dark times would fall upon them and they needed to be ready.*

*So.. it was, the elves united and so began their steps, gathering the resources of the earth, the forest to be ready, when the time came. It was from this that Scarlet showed her fellows how to bestow magic upon weapons, armaments and even buildings. To protect and reinforce them and hone them to an even finer point still. She would risk nothing, not when the sanctitiy of life was at stake. But she couldn't know, that the first war, wasn't against demons. But... against the residents of this very world.*
