# *The Spark that lit the fire.*

*It wasn't long, before the selfsame humans who began their trade routes and building vessels to enable them to ferry around the kingdom they crafted grew bold. Sir Archibald and Dame Rennalla Skye who equally joined in this venture, with a motley crew set out to chart some of the regions farther afield after leaving behind the mainland to those who could 'hold down the fort'. With them, they assembled an entourage of skilled priests, huntsmen and some mages who acted as their bodyguards and fellow explorers for incase anything happened.*

*It.. took months, sailing around trying to find anny land suitable for them to disembark and stretch their legs. Several sightings of dangerous beasts and powerful storms that shook the waves and heavens besides along their voyage. But potent magic and keen prayer seemed to be sufficient to ward them from too much danger. Atleast, so they thought. It was a leviathan of a beast, a serpentine dragon of sorts with maws that could snap the boat in twaine.*

*With azure blue scales, deep as the abyss in hue and radiant sky blue eyes and a magic that flared through it's very being. It caused the very ocean to shudder and a wave that would've meant destruction for the crew. It took the might of both the priests and mages to shield the ship in ice and holy protective magic. Worst still, the beast followed them, with arrows flung as far as they could, trying to fend the beast off, it snaked through the waters after them.*

*It forced them to the horizon, where at last they saw land, but it was short lived. They had to do, something -anything- to get the creature off it's tail and then, it happened. Climbing to the top of the crows nest, Renalla grabbed a singular arrow and a bow, she waited, just untill the beast lurched up out of the water and fired her shot. It snagged the beast's eye, not enough to damage it but enough to irritate it, it thrashed around slamming it's body upon the waves, causing a tidial wave to send careening after them.*

*It took the boat with it after wrenching it upwards by the grace of the light itself. They held on for dear life as the beast's thrashing sent waves countless miles out in every direction. Yet it was from this moment of stark shock that the humans knew fear, the fear of the depths. How dangerous it could be to sail the seas. But that wasn't the worst of it. They could hardly steer their ship due to the damage done. The mast and parts of the hull's exterior had been cracked, barely held together by ice from their mages*

*Yet, there was a faint sign of hope. A landmass just on the horizon, some measure that they may recover. For they saw trees, something they could hew and repair their vessel with adequate time. They made a crude disembark at the short, getting their ship as close to the shore as they could without damaging it further on the rocks or the shallower waters. There wasn't at the time any real sign of activity except for animals.*

*Sir Archibald and the huntsmen and women respectively scoured the land as best as they could, but it proved to be far larger than they anticipated and so to it, they began to; thanks to the mages make a rough note on a map of 'where' this land should be. Thus, they determined it was, aproximately to the west of their continent across a treacherous sea indeed. One thing they were able to deduce from their time spent here, however was that to the north, lay another expansive landmass that suggested 'some' signs of civilization.*

*With the strong desire of trade and diplomacy filling his lungs with enthusiasm, Sir Meadows made the suggestion they sail towards the landmass and search for a dock: For where there was people, there was -sure- to be some kind of dock, even perhaps a means to make trade, engage in diplomacy and learn more of the values of this brave new world.*

## *The first Encounter.*

*It.. was aproximately a few days more travel once they'd managed to properly reinforce and secure their vessel that they managed to chart a course around the larger isle before they saw more of the continent proper. With craggy rocks jutting out from the landmass and signs of villages and towns further inland thanks to spyglasses, the mottley crew eventually stumbled upon what appeared to be a natural habour and bay. This bay, as it turned out was already host to a dock of sorts. With a thriving town full of shorter, stout individuals each armed with weaponry and finely groomed beards and hair alike.*

*Each of their armaments bore strange and foreign symbols to the humans from Arcadia. Yet, as they drew nearer they were met with something unexpected. Not open arms for amicablle diplomacy, instead... a tension, a kind of rampant animosity that crept into the air. For as they neared the dock, scores of dwarves with axes, maces and even strange stick like weapons with barrels attached all readilly sat on the dock in preparation for something. Both Renalla and Archibald both were equally disturbed by the shorter races actions of hostility first.*

*They docked in the habour, not at the dock itself for out of fear that they too would be hacked to ribbons. Instead using one of the life-rafts, they sailed out to the dock proper with a well armed group. Three priests, two huntsmen equipped with a fine blade and a singular mage for Archibald and Renalla's protection. The moment they reached the pier, the tide of metal moved forwards to greet them. An uneasy feeling set upon the humans, their doubts and concerns practically visible. Their eyes said it all; confusion, concern, insecurity.*

*Weakness, something that both warned the dwarves of treachery and equally offended them. Coming to another persons home, without so much of an invitation, without so much of a gift and to be so brazen as to use -Their- port? Their property? The hard work of countless men and women of propriety? That was dishonourable in of itself. Strangers who knew nothing of them should leave, yet they held their blades for a singular purpose.*

*Their leader. The dwarf in charge of the habour, one who had just sent a vessel to link up and send supplies to another shipyard and dock on one of the neighbouring isles. A Mayor Ironbraid, a stout dwarf with rings of wrought iron bent into imperious shapes upon his beard, twisted into mighty braids that dangled down to just about his gut. With jet black hair that'd become salt and peppered with age and dark green eyes that looked like dark rusted copper.*

*A singular person, came with him, a female dwarf with stark ginger hair and a robe with a staff forged of this strange looking metal. It looked heavy, yet the blue sapphire jewel glowing from it spoke of magic, the singular mage with them spoke as much. With a singular spell casted upon all of them involved, at last diplomacy could be had. It was a recent spell, in the wake of the dwarves pioneering advancements in their runic scripts. It became nessecary for even the common folk to comprehend the languages engraved upon the walls. A stop gap measure to ease in others when new runes had been made and not yet understood. It was later found that such a spell could be used to translate spoken language or particularly surly dwarves who had quite the thick accent.*

*In the instant the spell was cast, a shimmer of blue purple and silver danced over the air between them and the space seemed to spin. As though their minds clicked together and enabled them to understand one another. Yet the mayor's tone was.... anything but civil.* "... What buisness do ye have on -Our- land, outsiders? Why have ye invaded this most sacred place to our ancestors?"
*The stark and harsh tone hit the duet like whiplash before Rennalla spoke in turn.* "... We meant no harm, we are explorers, charting the sea, we happened upon this land after being chased by a great serpent in the seas. Our vessel was damaged, it needed repairs before we found your port." *She explained as best she could in the circumstance yet the ire that soon came was more than prominent.*

"... Ye stole our resources? Ye plundered the land's beauty and ye claim ye mean no harm?! I dunnae' care if the sky fell upon ye! That which belongs to our ancestors, doesn't belong in the hands of some wimpy, cowardly piddly wretches!" *He clamoured with a short temper before a thunderous cry bellowed out from the dwarf. Atleast, that is what they remember.* 

*Both their huntsmen were slain as a hail of bullets flew out, Archibald caught a bullet to the shoulder whilst Renalla received a terrible burn from the mage up close as she tried to shield Archibald. The mage present did all she could to grab the both of them before escaping. They got back on their boat and rowed as fast as they could, with the three priests protecting them alongside the mage.*

*None of them had experienced anything like this, such rampant hostility, such disdain for their very existence. They wanted to open trade agreements, not start a fight! Not bring hostilities! They couldn't possibly have known how important that land or the resources were to them, they were trying to survive in a foreign place! Thus, it became a desperate attempt for survival, for they knew not how long it'd take for a ship to come chasing after them. Sir Archibald made the decision to flea to the south.*

*Yet, it was from the sanguine decision they made, that led to their salvation. A landmass, reaching the horizon as the days traveled on. With no sign yet the dwarves hunting them, they kept going, wounded as they were and grieving the loss of their own. They couldn't even bury the bodies, nor give them a proper funeral. So, all they could do was pray for their souls and press on. Untill... they saw it, in the distance.*

*A land, bolstered by countless trees, of verdant beauty full of life itself. A chance, they thought, maybe they could hide here or maybe, just maybe find help. The meeting with the dwarves had confirmed one thing; there were other people on this world of theirs. So.. maybe, the next ones they met, would be amicable? Both fear and hope led them forth.*
