# *An Ancient Assistance*

*In all their eons, living in their eternal forest, the wood elves had never encountered any outsiders before. It had always been those who dwelled within the boughs and nooks within their land. Their sacred groves, their treasured woodland home. Yet, upon that fateful day, blood soaked into the waters and trouble came calling in an unexpected fashion. For countless amongst them prowling the forests, some nascent drifters, others who were out hunting spotted a most, curious sight. Even the fishermen and women of the coastal province saw such a profound oddity. A... vessel, drifting on the sea towards their homeland.*

*A large ship with damage visible to the exterior and strange humanoid creatures looking forlorn upon the deck. They saw fear, anxiety, stress and worry from those with keener eyes. Such a vessel was tracked and countless alerts were sent right the way back to the capital. It wasn't long before the Archmage Dawnblade and Archdruid Moonguard were informed, but believing this wasn't in their area of expertise they entrusted the matter to the brightest millitary mind amongst them. Farondis Dawnstar.*

*The ship docked and was intercepted at the area just outside of the north western village. The humans, as they were later known by were brought into the confines of the village by Faelon Dawnsong, a keeper, a subsect of the druids of balance within the capital. Druids who are spread throughout the forest in groves and buroughs to keep an eye on the local lands to ensure that the forest is well maintained and that creaturues do not destroy all within. Such, was the teaching of master Silverbark, the ancient that slumbered peacefully within Letherion.*

*With the timely aid of a mage, who cast a similar but a spell that functioned by imprinting the language by sharing the knowledge with the arcane spell, the humans for now, understood the elven language. It was not a permenent spell, but it was a useful one. A spell used for begginners to get a grasp for 'how' some texts were written and how words were pronounced. For as it happened, the mages of the sanctum had used this spell in a variety of ways, including the sharing of experiences. Of 'how' they casted certain spells, to facilitate better magical practises.*

*And... others, when words failed, expression through magic could prevail and bridge a gap which would otherwise falter. Farondis grew troubled, from what the scout had reported from Keeper Faelon, these, creatures; those from Arcadia as they divulged, a land to the east where the sun rose. Had traveled across the seas and inadvertantly angered another race on their world, the land to the north.*

*Though the Arcadians he believed were victims, there was an element of disdain that they brought the conflict here. Though he would not hold it against them, he would however have to deal with this matter. So it was, he moblized the druids, the guardians of the capital and the rangers to the north. Should the surly short folk invade, searching for the Arcadians, then they had to be ready.* 

*It.. was four days later, that the fires begun on the northern region, when dwarven boots hit the sands and began to make landfall. The first to defend the lands were the treants, creatures formed of trees and given sentience by the lifedew of the forests. Gunfire, magic and axes hacked them to bits and the wood elven village had been burnt to the ground by the time the wood elven forces had arrived.*

*Before Farondis had chance to establish battle lines or even help evacuate anyone who was left, the devastation was surreal. A singular gunshot rang out from the shore as the elves grew closer, almost taking Farondis out in a singular hit. It ruined his left eye and the elves descended with righteous violence.*

*A storm of arrows from the heavens as roots rose up from the sands, shackling the hidden invaders as the guardians marched onwards. With their glaive like blades in hand and their armour guiding them onwards, only for arcane magic to erupt upon them. The wood elves were stunned that so few could do so much damage, that their weaponry was so advanced compared to their own. Even enchanted equipment helped little when the enemy used such tools.* 

## *A harrowing experience.*

*The pain wracked Farondis, but the lesson had been learnt hard and fast. He pulled back his troops, for the dwarves had set up a mighty position on the beachhead with snapshot marksmen and mages beside, their druids were being counteracted the moment they made their move. No, if they wanted to take them out, they would need cunning and precision, not direct combat like they wanted.*

*Thus, the elves set a trap of their own, he spread out his forces back into the forest proper, establishing snares, vine traps and even basic pitfall traps disguised in the natural terrain whilst they hid in ambushes. There were no survivors from the village, it was a devastating portion of news, alongside the death of so many treants. Farondis vowed with rage in his heart to not let this massecre go unawnsered for. At this point, it mattered little that the humans had brought them here. The small folk had made their decision and he was going to drown them in their own blood before it was through.*

*Yet this war was far from over, in the weeks that followed, the dwarves proved to be far more cunning than they had expected. Using explosives they cleared into the forests, uncovering traps and shattering them into nothing. Farondis at this point noticed that there was no sign of any warriors. Just marksmen and mages, then he knew the reason. These beasts were a diversion, whilst their main force pushed on into their heartland, searching for the humans.*

*Farondis, in his haste, called upon their most swift scout, Ashvar Oakheart and told him to make haste to the capital, avoid the river bank for that was the path the dwarves were taking. Inform the Archmage and Archdruid at once. That enemies had landed and conventional means alone, were insufficient to quell the tide of battle.* 

*It.. was from this time, that the dwarves had stumbled upon the village. Where the humans were. The most skilled of their warriors and a shaman amongst them. The elves within the town had no idea that the dwarves were coming this way. Only the humans, stood vigilant and in their hour of vigilance came salvation. For inspite of the language barrier for the spell had wore off, the humans managed to get the elves to get out of the village and head towards the capital.*

*They bought time, time enough to make a stand on what would later be named the Oakheart bridge. The dwarves were fierce, but could be slowed down by the mages, that was their saving grace to allow the elves to flee and regroup, arming themselves accordingly. Countless elves were wounded, trying to get away and with the grace of the light, they survived. It.. was the first time any of them had seen such a captivating and beautiful magic.*

*It... wasn't like druidic magics who's colour shone an emerald hue, or arcane who's colours danced between liliac, blues and silvers. This, radiated an almost resplendant glow like the sun. It emboldened them, gave them strength where they felt they had none. Unfortunately, by the time Oakheart had arrived at the bridge, the battle was well underway, fifty dwarven warriors armed to the teeth clashed against the cities defenders.*

*With Rennala leading the humans against them alongside the guardians, trying to help stem the tide. But the dwarves were fierce, yet it was only when the Archdruid and Archmage arrived that the battle turned in their favour. With the slumbering Ancient, Silverbark and several risen treants besides.*

*In the wake of the battle, Ashvar using a pincer manuvere drew some of the dwarves away by distraction and lead some of them back into the forest, a handful at most. With magic, the power of the light and stalwart defenders and the forest's wrath, falling upon the dwarves, they managed to push them back.*

*They saw it, first hand how hardy these dwarves were, even the few that fell, their skin was tough as stone, their armour so finely made it rivaled their enchanted arms and armour. Their ferocity on the level of beasts. Yet there would be time for deliberations later, especially on the nature of the divine light that flowed from the humans. For their valour was without question, though they brought the invaders here, they stood their ground and aided in the fight.*

*Farondis, however had not been idle, for he knew full well that a battle would transpire and from that he withdrew most of his forces, hellbent on ensuring they would not escape and certainly not survive. His force of druids ambushed them with writhing roots and lashing vines, constricting their movements. He clashed blades with them, he came face to face with their strength, their resolve. This, was not a foe to be underestimated, under any circumstance.*

*Yet the dwarves fell and whilst tremendous damage had been done, they had fought them off into a retreat. With the last remaining dwarf survivor they kept as prisoner. Farondis would interrogate this dwarf personally, he would find out their strength, their forces size. Even their millitary plans. That was his mission, but that would wait, untill after the dead had been burried.*

*For... as he came to understand, Ashvar Oakheart, the same scout he sent out to reach the capital, had perished in the battle. Countless like him had perished, from treants to guardians. A heavy toll in blood was wrought and he was responsible. So.. it was, that the battle of Oakheart bridge, as it came to be known was decided, both as a memorial with the names of the dead carved in their honour.*

*The humans and elves entered into a defensivie alliance and though Farondis's words were brutal and cutting, the humans swore to make amends. They would share all they knew, they would help them rebuild. For all they wanted was peace, trade, good will and diplomacy. Not war, not this. But trouble brewed for them all, the dwarven vessels that dropped off the others had departed. This boded ill for all of them. For Fardonis expected it, but informed the humans that in all likelyhood, Arcadia was the dwarves next target.*

*So it was, the Elves of the Eternal Lands and the Humans of Arcadia, entered into a pact, as the dwarves sailed to war on Arcadian soil*
