# *Path of Iron*

*It'd been a month and a half since that incident when the first dwarven boots made landfall upon Arcadian soil. When their ire had been roused, the defeat and news from the southern continent and their ardent frustration towards both the knife ears and tall folk alike. It was they who started this, so it would be the dwarves who finished it. Such was their proclamation, the army was led by General Ironguard. For it was in his determination that the humans would be back and would comit further crimes upon their land, wittnessed by how they ran tails betwixt their legs to the south.*

*Thus, the dwarven army of the northern mountains had decided to make it personal. So it was that the humans defiled their lands that the dwarves would defile theirs. Retribution for the theft and loss of dwarven life. With thunderous explosions, a barrage of cannon fire shot through the air as the balls of iron slammed into the stone foundations of the dock, sending fragments scattering into the sea. The sounds of people running for their lives and the local defenders realising they weren't equipped to handle a raid from the sea.*

*It.. was the first time, but the dwarves were surgical, whilst some of their ships had begun the bombardment, a retinue of dwarves made landfall in smaller vessels and had begun to march upon the dock's garrison from the other side. With brutal tactics and might, they crushed the defenders and scoured the garrison for any information they could garner. With a mage besides them to facilitate the comprehension of local maps and trade routes. It.. would be from here, that the dwarves would wage their battles.*

*With maps in hand and information of the humans defensive capabilities, it became apparent to the dwarves early on, that the only hurdle would be the capital. The villages and towns had insufficient numbers to give them pause. From the reports the survivors gave, the true trouble came from the elves and their 'trees' not the humans. So, the dwarves under the generals leadship devised a plan. To seige the capital from both sea and land, a simultaneous attack to crush the humans.*

*They marched upon the land, setting up camps along the way after thwarting any beast that dared get in their path, surveying the territory and the resources squandered by the humans that lived there. It was far nicer than the cold lands of the northern mountains. Yet it was clear, it bred weakness. These were not strong people, they were weak, full of fear and incapable of defending themselves.* 

*Solace, was the name of the village in the mountains bosom, such a name made the general irate at the prospect. Such idealism that led to nothing. Yet for all their millitary might that the general brought with him, things began to unravel. From the moment that ships had moved into a sieging position things went awry. Instead of a hail of cannonfire, a surge of arcane energy launched out towards the ships from the dock. The dwarves on those vessels didn't have time to evade, a singular blast that sheared through their hull, sinking one of their vessels immediately.*

*With spyglass in hand, the general spotted it. A blasted knife ear at the dock, guiding the humans with practised magical might. Wielding the arcane as a siege weapon itself, yet it was during this matter that the ground began to rumble. The retinue of dwarves marching upon the capital known as Centricia soon rose up their shields.*

*A hail of arrows blessed by arcane magics shot from the capitals walls and barriers of hardened ice rose up along the bridge to greet them. Humans, elves working side by side with guardians infront and spellcasters behind. With that knife ear who was missing an eye leading them from the front, calling out to the humans to act.*

*In such an untennable position the dwarves had two choices, to push on into the fortified position whilst arrows rained down or to attack. Yet the general wisely saw that with the ships ravaged and under threat he could no longer employ them as he would like. So a sound withdrawal was instead in order. If he could not seige the capital conventionally through raw might, then he would starve them out.*

## *The reckoning that followed.*

*With the farmland and grains, beasts aplenty in the lands surrounding Solace, the dwarves and their habour could easilly get supply ships to support them and their venture. Yet this could take months, a protracted endeavour to starve them out. Weeks went by and the dwarves own irritations began to gnaw at them, bickering started in the ranks and the general had to quickly stomp out the dissent by reminding their brethren why they were here. This wasn't about them, but their ancestors home, to right a wrong.*

*Yet... this too was apart of that knife ear's plan. Whilst the dwarves bickered in their camps, a rain of flaming arrows shot through the darkness. Flames spread, discord mounted quickly and before the defenders had time to gather themselves they were ambushed. A score of elven guardians and human huntsman and scouts wielding what-ever weapons they could muster, be it axes, spears or otherwise barreled into the fray. With divine favour from their priests, ensuring the restoration of their otherwise weaker force they harried the dwarves at their camp.*

*But were pushed back, several of them were wounded, the attacking force was bloodied but no losses were incurred. This only incensed the dwarves further, that this was cowardly, treacherous tactics from scum who defiled their lands to begin with! Countless amongst them were wrathful of the exchange  and even the general grew weary.*

*This was unsustainable.* 

*The camps were out in the open yet somehow they managed to catch them offguard. Even with skilled watchmen no less, the finest that their dwarven kin could muster! The humans forces were no match for their might, their armour or weaponry, yet in such protracted endeavours they could be wittled down.*

*So it was, that the general seeing the ire of his fellow men took to the front himself and that dawn, they rallied upon the capital once more. They gave no quarter this time but the defenders were ready. Rather than letting the dwarves merely attack, they were intercepted. With water elementals conjured by their mages, with guardians, huntsman with spears and priests behind them, General Ironguard was at the forefront and similarly was Farondis.*

*It was a feverish battle, with the raw might of the dwarves landing felling blows with every swing, their strength undisputed as they clashed weapons against the ensemble of elves and humans. The general gave no quarter, with every blow Farondish dealt, he gave back blocking, parrying off attacks and counterattacking in tow. Yet the defenders didn't give an inch.*

*Then, the arrows started to rain. There was a clear ire between both Farondis and General Ironguard, the one eye'd elf who's savagery in the moment felt as though the stout dwarf faced a member of his own kin. There was, admittedly a begrudging respect to be found there, in the might presented by these knife ears and the human's beside. Individually, they may not have been a match but together? With magic, tactics and fervor in their favour they proved to be a match.*

*This, wasn't a war they could win without heavy losses on both sides, the general could see it now. With arrows raining from the sky, endowed with rime and ice it slowed the dwarves down, then one by one without the healing fortitude of their fellows; they started to be reduced in number.*

*Morale and might alone could only stretch so far against the devout force of will before him. There was no choice, they had to withdraw. If only he had his marksmen, they were on the ships commanding the cannons. Rendered unusable by the threat of counter artillary. Thus, the general gave the order to retreat, but not before receiving a grizzly slash across the face by Farondis.*

*With sanguine pouring from wounds and the order issued, the dwarves routed. It would take them days to fully retreat back to the habour. Yet it had not been retaken, a stroke of fortune indeed. Loathe as he was to accept this defeat, he knew the humans and their elven counterparts would not relent. Harry them alone the way home if need be. Many of his soldiers would perish should that be the case, the ocean was no place for battle. Not with what lurked within it's depths roaming the deep sea.*

*So it was, the General led his men, those who survived back to the habour and onto their remaining ships, capturing any human vessel they had access to, alongside their maps and documents. As a final blow, they unleashed their remaining cannon blasts upon the dock, crashing it into the ocean beneathe. It would, at the least slow them down.*

*The general himself, had to return with his retinue of men, scarred and bloodied from the affair pushed to a standstill. With the battles endured and their fighting force diminished, the dwarves quarreled untill the king spoke. That enough lives had been lost, that enough blood had been shed. Their ancestors would be appeased, that they had fought so bravely for their home. This, was enough for the dwarves atleast for now. But in time, a treaty found it's way into their grasp.*

### *A means to end the war, for all.*

*It... outlaid conditions, that there would be no more bloodshed on either continent, that the last battles had proved eachothers might, eachothers blindspots. So it was, that the alliance of humans and wood elves offered a peace treaty to the dwarves. That to make amends on all parts of this conflict, proper channels of diplomacy would be constructed, trade routes and an insurance policy. That should one of them break this treaty, then it would be a swift and bloody retribution.*

*Thus, did this draw close to the first war of Azara and the time of peace that followed ushered many changes.*
