# *Through war and blood, in peace and solidarity.*

*It'd been some time since that first missive landed upon the dwarves shores, of the treaty for peace that was to be signed. It was a tumultuous time for the dwarves, they who believed they were in the right had been defeated. It was a bitter pill to swallow and worst of all there was, for General Ironguard, a growing realization that lives had been all but thrown away in their self righteousness. It was with great shame, that he brought this missive to his fellow dwarves and delivered his report.*

*That, the humans despite their many flaws had the capacity to be incredibly strong when backed into a corner, that their faith enabled them to hold their ground. They too, had priests of sorts, venerable priests who channeled the wisdom of their forebearers, to mend and give clemency in hours of need. It was from this very notion that the good general sought the wisdom of their ancestors.*

*For war and it's consequences couldn't have been known before, he began to doubt if they were truly correct in their decisions, that had the lives lost been worth it? For dwarven kind and the others? Whilst the others deliberated on such things, the good general found himself restless to the extreme. Replaying the war over in his mind, again and again. From his first point of involvement to the end.*

*Thus, little by little did, by the General's hand did the dwarves come to ruminate on what had happened. Lessons, that could be learned, particularly the elves and their forest. It.. was for them, the ancient dwellers of the continent that there was a strange sense of responsibility. For it was true, they had in hindsight done what the humans had done to them but worse. To.. make amends for such a thing, more had to be done.*

*The first step, did not come from a request by the humans, nor the elves in tow. Instead, the general made a request of a stone masons guild that the dwarves held such pride for. He made the request to mend the buildings that'd been damaged in the war, both in the human lands and the elves. For, it was in the generals estimation, that they now had a responsibility not just to their own people and their land. But, to those who's lives were upturned.*

*The general, at first was ridiculed for such an outrageous thing. Help their former enemies? The ones who started this mess to begin with? But the general found himself weary and awnsered them. That in order to prevent it happening twice, fixing what they wrought was a vital step forwards. For all of them, so that no more dwarven lives need be lost like that again.*

*It... was from that missive sent across the seas, that surprised both the humans and the elves by extension. No matter how big of a gesture it was, it showed the dwarves as a people who were not simple self righteous savages who's equipment exceeded their sense. *

## *Peace begins and endures, when all work towards it.*

*It.. was decided, that upon the dwarves initiative as a show of good will to host the diplomats and visionaries from each of the races, on a island just off the coast to the south of their land. Yet, the people who arrived were not who he expected, indeed Farondis and Rennalla Skye who daned to arrive at this meeting ground. Which the dwarves would later dub 'Foundation' for peace would begin here.*

*Yet, Farondis was anything but happy to see the general again, to be truthful there was an uneasy tension in the air, yet the general as undetterred. He locked gazes with the proud elf, who's eye remained missing and clothed behind a patch of cloth. Violence, spilled from that elf's tongue towards the general and several arguements stemming from the outrage he felt. So many lives had been lost and Farondis had been holding it tight since that day.*

*The general had to endure it, for even however right they felt, there were grains of truth in his words. He heard next, from Rennalla for the aid of the translative magics was useful indeed. Renalla reiterated the plight and damage done by the war to her own people and by proxy, spoke at length of the Arcadian desire simply for trade and diplomacy. They wanted, not retaliation but a future all could live with.*

*To.. hear it from the humans, it made Farondis fall silent, that even despite what had happened, how much they fought in the war, all the humans wanted wasa better future. Just as the sun would rise again over the world. It gave him pause, blunting his animosity. The general heard them, he listened as though he would his peers, which was a strenuous thing for him to do but in his estimation, Farondis was a worthy warrior, a leader of his people in the war.*

*Rennalla had returned, against the human fear of combat again. He saw how they fought, tooth and nail, the tactics they could employ and the risks they undertook to fight them. It.. was in this measure that the general spoke. That on behalf of his people, he bore a proposal. Speaking in no uncertain terms that he knew full well the harm to the elven people and humans could last into multiple generations.*

*Thus, the dwarves made an offer to them both, for as they had sent their masonry guild to help fix the humans lands, they would endeavour to make amends to the elves. For, there was wisdom in trade but that would come later. That, the dwarves in exchange for sending their arms and armour across the seas, with their smithes to each land to aid in teaching and facilitating a better quality of equipment to both peoples. That, the humans and elves do the same, something of value, something only they could bring.*

*Farondis paused at the thought, it was true that dwarven made armour and weaponry was, impressive to say the least. Farondis, in turn offered the magical wisdom and tutelage, for their mages and knowledge was beyond what any other could offer and equally; the wisdom of their druids.*

*Renalla, found herself pondering over such things, that an exchange by all three nations would be more than profitable, it would be uplifting to have such ancient wisdom and capable smithes. Yet, did they have anything to offer in turn? She thought on it for a long while before she nodded. Dame Rennalla suggested that the clerics and priest's and their own philosophers be sent out to both the Northern Mountains and the Eternal Lands.*

*Neither could argue that and after seeing the depths to which the light could ease the wounded and let them fight again. The elves had already begun to ponder it, this would be good for them, that much Farondis knew intrinsically. As... for the General, he flashed a smile at that, the humans sent philosophers and healers, for in their view that is what they could best offer. A different perspective; a way for them all to see eye to eye.*

*So it was, that the age of peace began again. Where the arcadian lands showed renewal from the damages of war, that the magics and development of their mages improved. With better equipment and the knowledge of 'how' to do better, it gave the humans chance to truly raise a proper millitary to help fight off foes in the future and the dwarves learned temperence.*

*The elves, founded their own churches of the sun thanks to the aid of the humans and each saw their own religions starting to blossum and become more active than they had before. For the ancestor clerics engaged in hefty dialogue and debate on the topics of theology with the humans and then later, once the elves foundation of faith had formed, so too did this transpire with the elves.*

*Trade was good, it enabled them to do much in the times they had. Various goods from grains, fruits, books and knowledge and would be explorers and warriors searching for their betterment. Each of the three races began to expand, to grow and begin to finally reach some of their potential. It... was an uneasy time for the dwarves and elves who, still didn't fully trust the dwarves. Yet, it was a start, none would forget their crimes against the forest. But perhaps, in good time they could trust that they would not do it again.*

*Peace, atleast for now.*
